README.md, before:

# DocMaps

A community-endorsed framework for representing research object-level (e.g. journal article, preprint, or dataset) review/editorial processes in a machine-readable, discoverable, and extensible format.

More info: https://docmaps.knowledgefutures.org

## About This Repo

This repo contains JSONLD contexts and framing for DocMaps that can be referenced in DocMaps.

It also contains the Typescript-based libraries (initially, just `packages/ts-sdk`) for use with Node.js.

### Monorepo usage

This repository is an NPM Module Monorepo. This top-level directory includes no distributed packages, but some reference material as well as automation scripts for the
cross-package behavior, such as release automation.

**Releases and tags:** Github Actions uses [multi-semantic-release](https://github.com/dhoulb/multi-semantic-release) to automatically generate semvers based on commit history for each package in the repository. Multiple tags
are generated for a single commit if it updates multiple packages.

## Persistent URLs

Documentation: https://w3id.org/docmaps

Latest @context: https://w3id.org/docmaps/context.jsonld


## Packages

### [ts-sdk](/packages/ts-sdk)

This package contains a library of JSON-parsing and string-parsing codecs based on
`io-ts`, and associated Typescript types. These types can be used without `io-ts`, but
that library natively integrates with `fp-ts` and enables easy encoding & decoding
from raw data types at runtime by creating Prototypical classes in runtime namespace
along with the types/interfaces in type namespace.

### [ts-etl](/packages/ts-etl)

This package contains a CLI tool based on `commander.js` for generating docmaps. Currently,
it supports generating a docmap for a given DOI if that DOI is indexed on Crossref, and
will traverse the Crossref API to find related preprints and reviews for that DOI. It is
still in a pre-release state while we gather feedback.

## Governance

As stated in [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md):

This project is governed by the [Knowledge Futures, Inc Organizational Code of Conduct](https://github.com/knowledgefutures/general/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

feat(@docmaps/etl,docmaps-sdk): use preconstruct for production building (#59)
also:
* run sanity check that ensures build occurred in prepublish step

README.md, after:

# DocMaps

A community-endorsed framework for representing research object-level (e.g. journal article, preprint, or dataset) review/editorial processes in a machine-readable, discoverable, and extensible format.

More info: https://docmaps.knowledgefutures.org

## About This Repo

This repo contains JSONLD contexts and framing for DocMaps that can be referenced in DocMaps.

It also contains the Typescript-based libraries (initially, just `packages/ts-sdk`) for use with Node.js.

### Monorepo usage

This repository is an NPM Module Monorepo. This top-level directory includes no distributed packages, but some reference material as well as automation scripts for the
cross-package behavior, such as release automation.

**Releases and tags:** Github Actions uses [multi-semantic-release](https://github.com/dhoulb/multi-semantic-release) to automatically generate semvers based on commit history for each package in the repository. Multiple tags
are generated for a single commit if it updates multiple packages.

The packages are themselves distributed each from its own `dist/` folder, but
that folder is built by `preconstruct build` run in the workspace root at release time.

## Persistent URLs

Documentation: https://w3id.org/docmaps

Latest @context: https://w3id.org/docmaps/context.jsonld


## Packages

### [ts-sdk](/packages/ts-sdk)

This package contains a library of JSON-parsing and string-parsing codecs based on
`io-ts`, and associated Typescript types. These types can be used without `io-ts`, but
that library natively integrates with `fp-ts` and enables easy encoding & decoding
from raw data types at runtime by creating Prototypical classes in runtime namespace
along with the types/interfaces in type namespace.

### [ts-etl](/packages/ts-etl)

This package contains a CLI tool based on `commander.js` for generating docmaps. Currently,
it supports generating a docmap for a given DOI if that DOI is indexed on Crossref, and
will traverse the Crossref API to find related preprints and reviews for that DOI. It is
still in a pre-release state while we gather feedback.

## Governance

As stated in [CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md](/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md):

This project is governed by the [Knowledge Futures, Inc Organizational Code of Conduct](https://github.com/knowledgefutures/general/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
